#summary Describes the special handling of Types as configuration item.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= Introduction =
Types are used to define the behavior for attributes, triggers etc. of business
objects. For a deep instruction see the "MQL Guide" or "Business Modeler Guide"
of the "ENOVIA Studio Modeling Platform".

----

= Handled Properties =
This type properties could be handled from !MxUpdate:
 * description
 * hidden flag
 * abstract flag
 * methods
 * triggers
 * attributes
 * properties

----

= Steps of the Update Flow =

== Cleanup ==
Following steps are done before the CI update file is executed:
 * set to not hidden
 * set to not abstract
 * reset description
 * remove all defined methods
 * remove all defined triggers

== Update ==
The CI update file is executed. If the TCL procedure "testAttributes" is
defined, the attributes of the types are updated.

----

= TCL Procecure "testAttributes" =
The TCL procedure "testAttributes" is used to test if all attributes are
assigned to the type. If some attributes are missed, these attributes are
assigned to the type.

== Parameters ==
|| *Parameter*                      || *Description* ||
|| {{{‑attributes [ATTR_LIST]}}}    || TCL list of attributes which must be defined on the type ||
|| {{{‑ignoreattr [NAME]}}}         || name of the attribute which is ignored (the attribute could be defined or not on the type); the global parameter {{{DMWithAttrIgnoreTypeAttr}}} also exists ||
|| {{{‑removeattr [NAME]}}}         || name of the attribute which is removed if currently assigned to the type; the global parameter {{{DMWithAttrRemoveTypeAttr}}} also exists ||
|| {{{‑type [NAME]}}}               || name of the type which is tested ||

== Example with Two Attributes ==
The two attributes "Attribute 1" and "Attribute 2" must be defined on a type.
Within an update the name of the type is defined in the TCL variable {{{NAME}}}.
{{{
testAttributes -type "${NAME}" -attributes [list \
    "Attribute 1" \
    "Attribute 2" \
]
}}}

== Example with One Attribute to Remove ==
The two attributes "Attribute 1" and "Attribute 2" must be defined on a type.
If attribute "Remove Attr" exists on the type, this attribute will be
automatically removed. Within an update the name of the type is defined in the TCL
variable {{{NAME}}}.
{{{
testAttributes -type "${NAME}" -removeattr "Remove Attr" -attributes [list \
    "Attribute 1" \
    "Attribute 2" \
]
}}}

----

= Parameter Definitions =
|| *Name:* {{{DMWithAttrIgnoreTypeAttr}}}         <p>*Parameter:* {{{‑‑ignoretypeattributes [ATTRIBUTE_MATCH]}}} </p><p>Pattern defining the match of attributes which are ignored if not defined anymore within the test attributes of types.</p> ||
|| *Name:* {{{DMWithAttrRemoveTypeAttr}}}         <p>*Parameter:* {{{‑‑removetypeattributes [ATTRIBUTE_MATCH]}}} </p><p>Pattern defining the match of attributes which are removed if not defined anymore within the test attributes of types.</p> ||

----

= Explanation of Update Error Codes =
|| *Error Code* || *Description* ||
|| 12101        || The given attribute is not defined anymore from TCL procedure {{{testAttributes}}} but already assigned to the type. The attribute is not automatically removed because otherwise potentially data could be lost. ||
|| 12102        || A wrong parameter was given the called TCL procedure {{{testAttributes}}} which defines the assigned attributes for a type. ||
|| 12103        || The name of the type is not the same then defined through the name of the CI file from the called TCL procedure {{{testAttributes}}}. ||

----

= Example =
{{{
################################################################################
# TYPE:
# ~~~~~
# MxUpdateTestType
#
# SYMBOLIC NAME:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
# type_MxUpdateTestType
#
# DESCRIPTION:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~
# MxUpdate Test Type with two attributes.
#
# AUTHOR:
# ~~~~~~~
# The MxUpdate Team
################################################################################

mql escape mod type "${NAME}" \
    description "MxUpdate Test Type with two attributes." \
    derived "ADMINISTRATION" \
    !hidden \
    abstract "false"

testAttributes -type "${NAME}" -attributes [list \
    "MxUpdateTestAttribute1" \
    "MxUpdateTestAttribute2" \
]
}}}

