#summary Describes the special handling of Programs as configuration item.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

= Introduction =
The source code of programs are handled as configuration item. The name of the configuration item file is the same name as they are used within MX.

= "Standard" Property and Symbolic Name Handling =
All non "standard" properties are removed before the program is updated and the embedded TCL code is execute. At the end all the "standard" properties "version", "file date", "application" and "author" are updated (depending on the used parameters). The "standard" properties "installer" and "original name" are only set if not already defined.

The symbolic name of the program is the automatically calculated string {{{program_[PROGRAM_NAME]}}}. If the {{{[PROGRAM_NAME]}}} includes some spaces or slashes, they are removed.


= Embedded TCL Code =
Sometimes some further TCL update code is required, e.g. to define a program user, or some properties for the program. The !MxUpdate Update deployment tool could handle this within the same program source code.

Because all non "standard" properties are removed before the embedded TCL code is execute, project specific properties could be set by using {{{add}}}.

== Start and End Markers ==
To identify the TCL update code some markers must be defined in the source code. For the beginning of TCL update code the marker
{{{
################################################################################
# START NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                     #
################################################################################
}}}
is used. At the end, the marker
{{{
################################################################################
# END NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                       #
################################################################################
}}}
must be defined.

== File Extensions ==
Embedded TCL update code is only executed for programs with the extensions ".xml", ".xsl", ".xslt", ".mql" and ".tcl". If some embedded TCL update code is identified for files with other extensions a warning message is shown in the console.

== Line Prefixes for TCL / MQL Programs ==
Because e.g. for TCL and MQL programs the embedded TCL update code will be executed, the line prefix {{{#}}} is defined. The line prefix depends on the file extension (".tcl" for TCL programs and ".mql" for MQL programs).

*Attention! The line prefix must be also defined for the start and end markers!*

== TCL Program Example ==
So for a TCL program the source code could look like this:
{{{
#################################################################################
## START NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                     #
#################################################################################
#
#mql mod program "MXPROG.TCL"  \
#    add property "Execute" value "true"
#
#################################################################################
## END NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                       #
#################################################################################
tcl;
eval  {
  .... SOME CODE ....
}
}}}

== XML Program Example ==
For XML and XSL(T) files the code could be embedded between start comment {{{<!--}}} and end comment {{{-->}}}. So the snippet for a XML program could like this:
{{{
<!--
   Some Comment...

################################################################################
# START NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                     #
################################################################################

mql mod program "MXPROG.XML"  \
    add property "Extension" value "PDF"

################################################################################
# END NEEDED MQL UPDATE FOR THIS PROGRAM                                       #
################################################################################
-->
}}}

= Parameter Definitions =
|| Name || Parameter || Default Value || Description ||
|| !ProgramTclUpdateExtension ||  || .xml=,.xsl=,.xslt=,.mql=#,.tcl=# || Defines the list of all file extensions which could embed TCL update code and depending on the extension the related line prefixes. ||
|| !ProgramTclUpdateMarkEnd ||  || _see the end marker_ || Defines the string to mark the end of embedded TCL update code within program source code. ||
|| !ProgramTclUpdateMarkStart ||  || _see the start marker_ || Defines the string to mark the start of embedded TCL update code within program source code. ||
|| !ProgramTclUpdateNeeded || --noprogramtclupdateneeded || true || Embedded TCL update code within a program is not executed. Instead a warning is shown because of existing TCL update code. *Attention!* The default value is true, but if the parameter is defined the flag will be false! ||

The parameters could be changed depending on project needs. For further information see the [UpdatePropertyFileFormat_ParameterDef Parameter Definition Format].