#summary Describes the special handling of Inquiries as configuration item.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= Introduction =
Configuration item update files for inquiries are separated into two different
pieces. The first piece handles the update itself of an inquiry, the second
piece is the inquiry code.

----

= Handled Inquiry Properties =
This inquiry properties could be handled from !MxUpdate:
  * description
  * hidden flag
  * format and pattern
  * inquiry code
  * arguments

----

= Separator between TCL Update Code and Inquiry Code =
The inquiry code and the TCL update code are defined in the same configuration
item file. Before the separator a comment is defined as information:
{{{
# do not change the next three lines, they are needed as separator information:
}}}
As separator following text is used:
{{{
################################################################################
# INQUIRY CODE                                                                 #
################################################################################
}}}
Below the separator the original code from the inquiry must be defined in the
same syntax as described in the MX manuals.

----

= Steps of the Update Flow =

== Cleanup ==
Following steps are done before the TCL update file is executed:
  * The description is set to zero length string.
  * The inquiry is set to not hidden.
  * The pattern and format is reset.
  * The inquiry code is removed.
  * All arguments are removed.

== Update ==
The inquiry code defined in the configuration item file is extracted and
written in a temporary file. The path of the file is defined as TCL variable
{{{FILE}}}. When the TCL update code is executed the inquiry code is updated to
the value defined in the file.

----

= Parameter Definitions =
|| *Name:* {{{UIInquirySeparatorComment}}}        <p>*Default Value:* _see the inquiry code separator_ </p><p>Defines the used comment in front of the separator between the inquiry TCL update code and the inquiry code itself.</p> ||
|| *Name:* {{{UIInquirySeparatorText}}}           <p>*Default Value:* _see the inquiry code separator_ </p><p>Defines the used text for the separator between the inquiry TCL update code and the inquiry code itself.</p> ||

The parameters could be changed depending on project needs. For further
information see the [UpdatePropertyFileFormat_ParameterDef Parameter Definition Format].

----

= Example =

{{{
################################################################################
# INQUIRY:
# ~~~~~~~~
# MxUpdate_Test
#
# SYMBOLIC NAME:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
# inquiry_MxUpdate_Test
#
# DESCRIPTION:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~
# Inquiry for test purposes.
#
# AUTHOR:
# ~~~~~~~
# The MxUpdate Team
################################################################################

mql escape mod inquiry "${NAME}" \
    description "Inquiry for test purposes." \
    pattern "\$\{OID\}" \
    format "\$\{OID\}" \
    file [file join "${FILE}"] \
    add argument "ID" "objectId"

# do not change the next three lines, they are needed as separator information:
################################################################################
# INQUIRY CODE                                                                 #
################################################################################

print bus ${ID} select id dump "
"
}}}
