#summary Describes how to develop MxUpdate Update Deployment Tool

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= Install Eclipse Project =
Prerequisites is that the Maven settings are already defined (as described in
[Development]).

  * Use the Maven Eclipse Plug-In
  * In Eclipse create a new SVN project using the {{{trunc}}} directory.
  * Update Maven dependencies.

The Maven dependencies are updated and the {{{eMatrixServletRMI.jar}}} and
{{{m1jsystem.jar}}} are added (which should be checked).

----

= Maven Profiles =
Three different profiles exists which could be activated:
|| *Name of the Profile* || *Description* ||
|| {{{no-tests}}}        || No tests are executed. ||
|| {{{test-all}}}        || All tests are executed. ||
|| {{{release-profile}}} || The assembly plug-in prepares the packages with the source code and the Javadoc pages. ||

----

= Preparing Maven Site =
The site generated from maven are used for reporting purposes. The current
released version could found at [http://update.mxupdate.org/].
The site generates reports for
  * [http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/ Find-Bug]
  * [http://pmd.sourceforge.net/ PMD]
  * [http://pmd.sourceforge.net/cpd.html PMD's Copy/Paste Detector]
  * !JavaDocs
  * Source Code
  * Surefire (Tests)

Because the plug-ins requires a lot of memory, the maximum memory for Java must
be defined as option:
{{{
export MAVEN_OPTS=-Xmx1024m
}}}
Because the tests runs a long time, the site could be created without Surefire report by calling
{{{
mvn site -P no-tests
}}}
If all tests should be executed, following command must be called
{{{
mvn site -P test-all
}}}

----

= Upload new Version to Google Code Downloads =
The [http://code.google.com/p/gcupload-maven-plugin/ gcupload] maven plug-in is
used to handle the upload of a new !MxUpdate Update version to the the download
section at the !MxUpdate Google Code page.

To use the plug-in the {{{release-profile}}} must be actived.

== Local configuration ==
To use this Maven goal following properties must be defined in the user specific
{{{setting.xml}}} file :
{{{
<settings>
    :
  <servers>
       :
    <server>
      <id>googlecode</id>
      <username>[YOUR_GOOGLE_ACCOUNT_NAME]</username>
      <password>[SVN_PASSWORD_FROM_PROFILE]</password>
    </server>
       :
  </servers>
    :
</settings>
}}}

== Local Test ==
To create the packages without upload following maven call must be done:
{{{
mvn install -P release-profile
}}}

== Upload to Google Code ==
To upload a new !MxUpdate Update version, following maven call must be done:
{{{
mvn gcupload:gcupload -P release-profile
}}}
First the source code and the Javadoc are packed and compressed. Then the
packages are uploaded.
