#summary Frequently Asked Questions.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= Common =

== Why is not XML used? ==
"Pure" XML files are hard to understand and not easily to write. Also the
complete syntax must be re-implemented to support all features from MX. This
means that every developer must learn a new syntax instead using an already
existing and well known syntax like MQL.

So script based files based on MQL syntax are more easily to learn for
developers. And it gives also the possibility to write "extra" code for
modifications (e.g. to assign all attributes to a type).

== Why are the Scripts not embedded within XML? ==
This means an "extra" overhead for the developer (embedding his script code
within XML code) and existing plug-in's for editors could not be used.

== Why was TCL used for the Configuration Item files? ==
The {{{emxGerLibUpdate}}} tool had used this file format for many years
also for productive deployments successfully. So the TCL approach was well
proved and tested.

Also it is possible to use existing plug-ins for the preferred editors which
support TCL code. E.g. Eclipse has a good plug-in for TCL.

So TCL itself is widely used and well known in the industry. The updates are
flexible and could be easily developed and managed.

PS: Also the OOTB Schema Installer used TCL scripts to update and to manage the
executions of scripts...

== Why not to use OOTB Schema Installer? ==
The OOTB Schema installer is fine and very good to update existing schemas
depending on delta's (which is required for a product, e.g. thinking about
renaming relationships in one version and adding an attribute in an later
version etc.). But this means that all modifications must be written *MANUALLY*
with deltas. It is not possible to make a quick change e.g. in the "Business
Modeler" and export the modification.

Also not all required configuration items are supported (e.g. triggers,
notifications, web tables). For this configuration items TCL delta scripts must
be written.

== What is the "Configuration Item" philosophy? ==
!MxUpdate uses the "Configuration Item" philosophy which means that for all
single configuration item one script exists. This script defines the target,
independent which previous version is currently installed and used. So in
theory only the delta between the target and current existing will be installed.

== How is the Delta between Target and Existing calculated? ==
!MxUpdate itself calculates for all items where no data could be lost with an
easy algorithm. First all current existing information is reset. Than the target
is defined (via MQL update).

An example is the update for a menu. First all assigned menus and commands are
removed. Then the script in the file is executed and all menus and commands are
assigned again.

----

= !MxUpdate Update Tool =

== Alternatives to Manually Downloads ==

=== Using SVN External Link ===
Instead of manually downloading the !MxUpdate Update deployment tool, an
external link could be defined if [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] is
used. E.g. following property entry "{{{svn:externals}}}" for a directory must
be defined to reference version 0.5.0:
{{{
source http://mxupdate.googlecode.com/svn/mxupdate-update/tags/V0.5.0
}}}
Because for [UpdateDevelopment development] another directory structure is used,
the {{{MXUPDATE_PATH}}} must set to the {{{src/main}}} directory.
The *{{{MxInstall.mql}}}* is located in {{{src/main/resources}}} sub path. The
script itself checks that a development structure is defined and installs
!MxUpdate Update depending on this directory structure.

== Support of old MX versions ==

=== Dimensions ===
If the used MX version within the project does not support the configuration
item "[CI_DM_Dimension Dimension]" the parameter list of the type definition
"Dimension" and type defintion groups "Admin" and "!DataModel" must be changed
that they do not include definitions for the configuration item
"[CI_DM_Dimension Dimension]". Also the "extra" parameters for the
[CI_DM_Dimension dimensions] must be removed from the parameter list. So
following lines must be added to the additional property file:
{{{
TypeDef.Dimension.ParameterList                     =
TypeDef.Dimension.ParameterListOpposite             =

TypeDefGroup.Admin.TypeDefList                      = IEFGlobalConfig,IEFGlobalRegistry,\
                                                      JPO,Program,Page,\
                                                      AttributeBoolean,AttributeDate,AttributeString,\
                                                      AttributeInteger,AttributeReal,\
                                                      Expression,Format,Interface,Policy,Relationship,Rule,Type,\
                                                      Notification,Trigger,TriggerGroup,\
                                                      NumberGenerator,ObjectGenerator,\
                                                      Association,Group,Person,PersonAdmin,Role,\
                                                      Channel,Command,Form,Inquiry,Menu,Portal,Table

TypeDefGroup.DataModel.TypeDefList                  = AttributeBoolean,AttributeDate,AttributeString,\
                                                      AttributeInteger,AttributeReal,\
                                                      Expression,Format,Interface,Policy,Relationship,Rule,Type,\
                                                      Notification,Trigger,TriggerGroup,\
                                                      NumberGenerator,ObjectGenerator

ParameterDef.DMDimAllowRemoveUnit.ParameterList     =
ParameterDef.DMDimAllowUpdateDefUnit.ParameterList  =
ParameterDef.DMDimAllowUpdateUnitMult.ParameterList =
ParameterDef.DMDimAllowUpdateUnitOffs.ParameterList =
}}}
For a deeper explanation see key "[UpdatePropertyFileFormat_TypeDef TypeDef]"
and key "[UpdatePropertyFileFormat_TypeDefGroup TypeDefGroup]" of the property
file format.

=== Encoding Issue of Programs ===
Old MX versions does not encodes for programs double closing square brackets
correct. In this case following error is shown:
{{{
    org.xml.sax.SAXParseException: The content of elements must consist of
    well-formed character data or markup.
}}}
Then the encoding work-around for programs must be activated:
{{{
ParameterDef.ProgramUseEncodingWorkAround.Default = true
}}}
For more information see the documentation for the
[CI_Program program configuration item].

=== Relationship as from / to side for Relationships ===
If the used MX version within the project does not support the feature to use
also relationships as from / to side the property "DMRelationSupportRelCons"
must be changed and set to {{{false}}}. So following line must be added to the
additional property file:
{{{
ParameterDef.DMRelationSupportRelCons.Default = false
}}}
The installed default value is {{{true}}}.

=== Role Types ===
If the used MX version within the project does not support the role type
feature, property "!UserRoleSupportRoleType" must be changed and set to
{{{false}}}. So following line must be added to the additional property file:
{{{
ParameterDef.UserRoleSupportRoleType.Default = false
}}}
The installed default value is {{{true}}}.


== How to use !MxUpdate Update together with emxGerLibUpdate? ==
"!MxUpdate Update" and "emxGerLibUpdate" could be used together within one
installation. The recommendation is to use only one tool.

The Tool "emxGerLibUpdate" uses and installs other attribute and type names to
handle administration objects which are business objects. For attributes this
belongs to the author, installed date and version. For types it is the process
type (which is called in !MxUpdate [CI_DM_TriggerGroup trigger group]). So
following lines must be defined to use !MxUpdate Update and emxGerLibUpdate
together in one environment:

{{{
# use attribute names from emxGerLibUpdate
PropertyDef.Author.AttributeName        = emxGerLibUpdateAuthor
PropertyDef.InstalledDate.AttributeName = emxGerLibUpdateInstalledDate
PropertyDef.Version.AttributeName       = emxGerLibUpdateVersion

# emxGerLibUpdate calls trigger group "Process"
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.BusPolicy          = emxGerLibUpdateProcess
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.BusRelsBoth        = emxGerLibUpdateSubProcess
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.BusType            = emxGerLibUpdateProcess
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.FilePath           = datamodel/process
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.FilePrefix         = PROCESS_
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.TextLogging        = process
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.TextTitle          = PROCESS
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.ParameterDesc      = Export / Import of processes.
TypeDef.TriggerGroup.ParameterList      = process
}}}
For a deeper explanation see key "[UpdatePropertyFileFormat_TypeDef TypeDef]"
and key "[UpdatePropertyFileFormat_PropertyDef PropertyDef]" of the property
file format.

== How to remove automatically Attributes from Types, Relationships or Interfaces? ==
The "standard" behavior if an attribute is missed from a type, relationship or
interface is, that the !MxUpdate Update Tool throws an error because potentially
some data could be lost. This means typically that the attributes must be
removed within a pre-update script. Within "pure" development this is not a nice
feature because in this case the developer must write "extra" scripts because
only some modification of the data model is done.

Instead some configuration of the mapping properties could be done that
attributes are automatically removed. This behavior should be only configured
within development. It is *NOT* *RECOMMENDED* to use this configuration for
deployments on productive systems!

The parameters which defines the matches to remove attributes must be adapted.
It could be defined a star {{{*}}} to match all attributes. Maybe a good idea is
to define the match including a prefix (so that only custom attributes are
automatically removed).

=== Remove Attributes Automatically from Interfaces ===
{{{
ParameterDef.DMWithAttrRemoveIntAttr.Default = *
}}}

=== Remove Attributes Automatically from Relationships ===
{{{
ParameterDef.DMWithAttrRemoveRelAttr.Default = *
}}}

=== Remove Attributes Automatically from Types ===
{{{
ParameterDef.DMWithAttrRemoveIntAttr.Default = *
}}}


