#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= How to setup a new development-project from scratch =

This section describes the setup of a new development project with Eclipse.

== Prerequisites ==

The following prerequisites are needed:
  * Install Eclipse
  * Create new workspace in Eclipse
  * Install MxUpdate
  * Install MxUpdate Eclipse Plug-In

== Create new project in Eclipse ==

Create new project in Eclipse by selecting _File/New/Project_

== Create folder vendor for source-data ==

Create new folder _vendor_ inside the new project.

This folder will contain the source-files.

Create new folder _JPOs_ inside the _vendor_-Folder.

This folder will contain the source-JPOs.

Create new folder _lib_ inside the _vendor_-Folder.

This folder will contain the libraries.

== Export source JPOs via MQL ==

Start RMI-MQL.

Export all JPOs with the following command to *C:\TEMP\JPOs*:
{{{
exec prog MxUpdate --export --jpo * --path C:\TEMP\JPOs;
}}}

Move all files and folders from *C:\TEMP\JPOs\jpo* to *\vendor\JPOs* in the new project-structure.

Delete folder *org* and file *MxUpdate_mxJPO.java*.

== Set build path for JPOs in Eclipse ==

In Eclipse select project with right mouse-click.

In Pop-Up-Menu select _Build Path\Configure Build Path_.

Select *Add Folder* and define folder *\vendor\JPOs*.

== Copy libraries needed in new Eclipse-Project ==

Copy all library-files from Application Server, e.g. *c:\tomcat\WEB-INF\lib*, to folder *\vendor\lib*.

Copy file *servlet-api.jar* from Application Server, e.g. *c:\tomcat\lib*, to *\vendor\lib*.

== Defined libraries needed in new Eclipse-Project ==

In Eclipse select project with right mouse-click.

In Pop-Up-Menu select _Build Path\Add Library\User Library_.

Create new *User Library*.

Mark new *User Library* and select *Add JARs*

Select folder *\vendor\lib* and add all JARs from this folder.

== Create folder-structure for Project-Files  ==

Create following folder-structure under project-root:
  * _\10_pre_environment_
  * _\20_environment_
  * _\30_pre_mxupdate_
  * _\40_mxupdate_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\attribute_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\dimension_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\expression_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\format_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\interface_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\numbergenerator_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\objectgenerator_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\policy_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\relationship_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\rule_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\trigger_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\triggergroup_
  * _\40_mxupdate\datamodel\type_
  * _\40_mxupdate\integration_
  * _\40_mxupdate\program_
  * _\40_mxupdate\program\csharp_
  * _\40_mxupdate\program\jpo_
  * _\40_mxupdate\program\mql_
  * _\40_mxupdate\program\page_
  * _\40_mxupdate\user_
  * _\40_mxupdate\user\association_
  * _\40_mxupdate\user\group_
  * _\40_mxupdate\user\person_
  * _\40_mxupdate\user\role_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\channel_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\command_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\form_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\inquiry_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\menu_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\portal_
  * _\40_mxupdate\userinterface\table_
  * _\50_post_mxupdate_
  * _\60_environment_
  * _\70_post_environment_

== Define JPO-Folder of project as source folder in Eclipse ==

In Eclipse select folder *\40_mxupdate\program\jpo* with right mouse-click.
In Pop-Up-Menu select _Build Path\Use as Source Folder_.


