#summary describes the methodic how configuration items could be used within MX
#sidebar Update_Index

= Introduction =

Currently within a lot of MX projects the existing configuration (attributes, types, also commands etc.) are handled via MQL update scripts. One good example for that are the installation scripts which are delivered with the installation packages of the different centrals.

= Configuration Items =
As describes in [http://www.wikipedia.org Wikipedia] the term [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Configuration_item Configuration Items] refers to the fundamental structural unit of a configuration management system. In MX the fundamental structure unit are e.g. for the data model attributes, types, policies..., for the user interface e.g. commands, menus, web forms and web tables. So the basic idea behind the "Configuration Item" methodic is to store a complete description of a fundamental structure unit in one single file. This means that each file could be handled easily within a source code repository (like [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] etc.). 

Instead of described each versions and a delta (like in the XML update files delivered from MX) the idea behind the method is to describe the target of an administration object. E.g. for a command the HRef, all settings and all properties are described in this file. If the command must be changed a developer could see the complete command description. A modification of the command is for the developer than very easy. If then the command is deployed the existing command in MX is updated to the new target description in the file.