#summary Describes the special handling of Menus as configuration item.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3"/>

----

= Introduction =
Menus are used to define group buttons for the web user interface. In some
cases a menu could also be a button with action. For a deep instruction see the
"MQL Guide" or "Business Modeler Guide" of the "ENOVIAvStudio Modeling
Platform".

----

= Handled Menu Properties =
This menu properties could be handled from !MxUpdate:
  * description
  * hidden flag
  * "alt" and label text
  * hyperlink reference (HRef)
  * settings
  * sub commands and menus
  * properties

----

= Steps of the Update Flow =
== Cleanup ==
Following steps are done before the TCL update file is executed:
  * The description is set to an empty string.
  * The menu is set to not hidden.
  * The "alt" and label text is set to an empty string, too.
  * The hyperlink reference is removed.
  * All settings are removed.
  * All properties are removed.
  * All sub commands and menus are removed.

== Update ==
The TCL update file is executed.

----

= Parameter Definitions =
No further parameters are defined.

----

= Example =
{{{
################################################################################
# MENU:
# ~~~~~
# MxUpdateToolbarMenu
#
# SYMBOLIC NAME:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
# menu_MxUpdateToolbarMenu
#
# DESCRIPTION:
# ~~~~~~~~~~~~
# Menu for test purposes.
#
# AUTHOR:
# ~~~~~~~
# The MxUpdate Team
################################################################################

mql escape mod menu "${NAME}" \
    description "Menu for test purposes." \
    label "emxFramework.Common.Actions" \
    href "" \
    alt "" \
    add setting "Registered Suite" "Framework" \
    add command "MxUpdate_Test"
}}}